[reorg] new Recipes section; Basics streamlined (#2550)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/recipes/build-forms.mdx

---

> title: Build HTML Forms in Astro Pages

Author: Calling out that I changed the title and opening paragraph because "0JS" isn't the most readable, I find. So, instead I put HTML here and added something about not sending JavaScript below. 

Totally open to other suggestions here, but I really do not like how 0JS looks, so I'd really rather avoid using that.

Reviewer: This works for me!

    Be sure to include a `<button>` or `<input type="submit">` element to submit the form.

    ```astro title="src/pages/register.astro"
    ---
    ---
    <h1>Register</h1>
    <form>
      <label>
        Username:
        <input type="text" name="username" />
      </label>
      <label>
        Email:
        <input type="email" name="email" />
      </label>
      <label>
        Password:
        <input type="password" name="password" />
      </label>
      <button>Submit</button>
    </form>
    ```

3. Use [validation attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Forms/Form_validation#using_built-in_form_validation) to provide basic client-side validation that works even if JavaScript is disabled. 

    In this example,
    - `required` prevents form submission until the field is filled. 
    - `minlength` sets a minimum required length for the input text.
    - `type="email"` also introduces validation that will only accept a valid email format.

    ```astro title="src/pages/register.astro"
    ---
    ---
    <h1>Register</h1>
    <form>
      <label>
        Username:

>         <input type="text" name="username" required />

Author: Calling out that I removed the length restriction on the username, and I believe I updated everything following accordingly. (Minimum length on usernames can be a sore spot for peeps with short names! The password illustrates `minlength` so I think that's fine?)

Reviewer: That makes sense, thanks!

      </label>
      <label>
        Email:
        <input type="email" name="email" required />
      </label>
      <label>
        Password:
        <input type="password" name="password" required minlength="6" />
      </label>
      <button>Submit</button>
    </form>
    ```
    

>     :::tip

Author: Just calling attention to this tip that adding a `script` tag will make it no longer zero-JS? So, do we for sure want to add that here?

Reviewer: I do like having a tip that explains the case when you _do_ want JavaScript - when you need more complex validation. It _is_ an "aside".

>     You can add custom validation logic, and validation logic that refers to multiple fields, using a `<script>` tag and the [Constraint Validation API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Constraint_validation#complex_constraints_using_the_constraint_validation_api).

Reviewer 2: The use of "validation logic" almost back-to-back sounded a bit confusing for me, what about reworking this a bit? - Not sure that "custom validation logic that refers to multiple fields" is misleading, as in, you can't have both, so feel free to ignore and propose something else here.
```suggestion
    You can add custom validation logic that refers to multiple fields, using a `<script>` tag and the [Constraint Validation API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Constraint_validation#complex_constraints_using_the_constraint_validation_api).
```

Author: I like Yan's proposal! @Jutanium happy for you to approve this one, but... extra comma here because of deleting the clause, I think?

Reviewer: I used the ol' "edit comment and commit" trick 😬

    To write complex validation logic more easily, you can build your form using a [frontend framework](/en/core-concepts/framework-components/) and choose a form library like [React Hook Form](https://react-hook-form.com/) or [Felte](https://felte.dev/).
    :::

> 4. Change the form's default data transfer `method` to `POST` to... or to avoid....(link this to what happens when submitting) The form submission will cause the browser to request the page again, with the form data stored in the [`Request` body](/en/reference/api-reference/#astrorequest).

Author: Just calling out that I changed this up, but it still needs some deets! @Jutanium

Reviewer: https://github.com/withastro/docs/pull/2550/files/9a9030acb69fadf73725d00a7efc112b142cc18d#r1125387906

> 4. Change the form's default data transfer `method` to `POST` to... or to avoid....(link this to what happens when submitting) The form submission will cause the browser to request the page again, with the form data stored in the [`Request` body](/en/reference/api-reference/#astrorequest).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The form submission will cause the browser to request the page again. Change the form's data transfer `method` to `POST` to send the form data as part of the `Request` body, rather than as URL parameters.
```
